# Learning Journal — 2026-01-03

## Module

- Linux Fundamentals

## Topics Covered

- Linux structure
- Linux distributions
- Introduction to Shell
- Prompt description
- Getting Help
- System information
- Navigation

## Key Concepts Learned

Everything on linux is an archive.

Exists a lot of distribution of linux, for example, ubuntu, mint, arch, parrot, each follows the philosophy of linux but has some packages especific for its purpose, it can be privacy, user friendly, server, etc.

With the shell we can interact with the OS directly, not necessity of a GUI.

Prompt is what we write on the shell, the instructions, also it can appear some information that can be of utility to us, like user, hostname, ip, etc.

Not everything can be memorized, so in order to get help for some commands, we can write [command] --help, and it tell us what that commands does and what else we can write for specific output. Also the command _man_, with man [command].

To obtain information of the sysytem we can use the command _uname_, for example if we write uname -r writes the current release level of the operating system to standard output.

To navigate in the system, we can use pwd to see in what folder we currently are, cd to change direcory, ls to what are the files in the current folder.

## Hands-On Practice

- Used uname to see the version of the kernel in the attacked machine.
- See the index of a file in a folder.
- Knows the name of the folders.

## Interesting Observation

## SOC Perspective

To know what to attack the first thing is to know what we are attacking and where to look for sensitive information. For example with this applied I can navigate in the system that I am attacking or in the SOC perspective, to know what they are attacking me, my system.

## Evidence
